= Platform structure

Our example has two React applications: `app-account` -- the Accounts
app -- and `interbit-template` -- the Template app. Each app starts its
own Interbit node within the browser, making these truly _serverless_
apps. The Interbit nodes within the browser communicate with the
`platform-deploy` and `web-auth-endpoint` hypervisors, to coordinate
consensus as actions are dispatched to the respective blockchains.

image:img/platform-deploy.png["The Platform structure", 932, 438,
role="center zoom"]

The `platform-deploy` node hosts the Accounts and Template chains. (See
link:/reference/interbit-ui-tools/chainSponsorship.adoc[Chain
Sponsorship] for more information on hosting chains.)  This node is the
block master and thus is responsible for adding new blocks to the
application chains. There is no requirement for the Accounts and
Template chains to be hosted on the same node. They could be hosted on
separate nodes and each app's chains could be hosted on multiple nodes
for redundancy.

The `web-auth-endpoint` node hosts the Accounts app chains and a GitHub
chain.  It also runs an Express web server that fields the HTTP requests
coming from GitHub during an OAuth flow.

These two nodes are peers. During the GitHub OAuth flow, OAuth requests
from GitHub are received by the Express web server. The Express web
server uses the Interbit CLI to dispatch an action to all peer nodes on
the network, and each node processes the action deterministically,
thereby guaranteeing that the chain state is the same on all nodes. The
connection between nodes is managed by both hypervisors.

When the `platform-deploy` package is built, it:

- Uses a config file that is a union of the config files at
  `packages/app-account/interbit.config.js` and
  `packages/interbit-template/interbit.config.js`. These files specify
  peer nodes, static chains, and chain join configurations. See the
  link:../template.adoc[Template App Walk-through] for a detailed
  explanation of the Template app's chain architecture.

- Generates a manifest file at
  `packages/platform-deploy/platform/interbit.manifest.json`. See
  link:/reference/interbit-cli/manifest.adoc[Interbit CLI Manifest].

- Creates hashed covenant files for the Accounts and Template app
  covenants. See link:/key-concepts/covenants.adoc[Covenants].

The `web-auth-endpoint` config file is the same as the `app-account`
config file.
